I mentioned early about the human fascination
with building machines in our own image. This
is an amazing project out of the Osaka University.
One of these characters is a Japanese robotic
researcher and the other one is a robot. See
if you can tell which one is which. Perhaps
the best-known humanoid robot is Asimo built
by Honda the car company.
Here we see a pair of humanoid robots out
of a Chinese university playing ping-pong
with each other and apparently they're able
to do rallies that last up to a hundred and
seventy six strokes. We see some quite competent
behaviour in these humanoid robots and in the
last one, the ability to walk, the ability
to use hand eye control to perform a complex
task like ping-pong.
Robotic researchers are working on mimicking
almost all aspects of the human form. People
working on legged locomotion, there are people
working on hands and manipulation and eyes
and heads and so on, so bit by bit we're able
to mimic or copy different parts of the human
body and the really big challenge for us as
roboticists is how do we integrate all these
into one system that is reliable and can be
manufactured for a cost that is affordable
for people on the planet.
Here is an example of a very human like robotic
hand. It's got four fingers and an opposable
thumb. It has force sensors so it was able to
control the forces that it exerts on an object.
So it's able to manipulate delicate things
like the light bulb shown here. Bit by bit,
over the decades, roboticists have built up
a large inventory of different technologies.
We've been building hands, we've been building
vision systems that mimic the human sense
of sight. We’ve been building heads, we've
been building legs. We understand how to walk,
we understand how to manipulate objects.
So the big challenge for roboticists today
is how do we integrate all this component
technology in a way that is reliable, that
is affordable and that gives us the functionality
approaching that of a human being.